[Music]
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson Jason Riley is a senior fellow
at the Manhattan Institute a columnist
for The Wall Street Journal and a
commentator for Fox News born in Buffalo
New York mr. Riley earned a bachelor's
degree in English from the State
University of New York at Buffalo mr.
Riley is the author of several books
including please stop helping us how
liberals make it harder for blacks to
succeed and his most recent volume which
we'll be discussing today false black
power Jason welcome thank you for having
me I want to get to the argument in
false black power but let's start with
your conclusion what is false black
power and what is true black power a
false black power is political power
political clout true black power is
human capital something that can't be
taken away from an individual or a group
by human capital all I'm referring to
it's a it's a term that economists use
but it's essentially it refers to
culture cultural traits habits behaviors
attitudes that allow a group to produce
economic value in what they're doing and
that human capital I argue is much more
important than having political capital
when it comes to advancing a group
socio-economic way all right
the argument in false black power your
point of departure goes back more than
half a century to the Moynihan report of
1965 written by then Assistant Secretary
of Labor Daniel Patrick Moynihan later
became a longtime senator from New York
the formal title of the report the Negro
family the case for national action
Moynihan noted the rise among black
families in inner cities of families
headed by single women and wrote the
Negro family in urban ghettos is
crumbling why did Matt Moynihan believe
that the families were crumbling what
the cause he associated with that
welcome the well this this had grown out
of the black migration out of out of the
south which was very hard on families
frankly other what I just wanted to
brief book readable and I picked it up
thinking here we have a polemic we have
an argument it's it is that but it is
that it is deeply concerned with history
with african-american history alright so
and it is because it's it's concerned
with an aspect of black history that I
don't think gets a lot of attention
people sort of think we went from
slavery to Rosa Parks refusing to sit
down on a bus or go to the back of a bus
and and and then the civil rights
movement took us to where we are today
but I think we're missing a lot of
material here and that is the period in
between the end of slavery in the
beginning of the the modern-day civil
rights movement and the advancement that
was going on within the black community
frankly at a time when the federal
government was could care less what was
going on there had there was no civil
rights act there was no Voting Rights
Act yet this was during Jim Crow this is
post reconstruction and I think that
this period of black history is
underappreciated what was going on at
that time how were blacks advancing or
not advancing at that time period and I
think when we talk about what should be
done today to help last right we should
look at this period and study this
period what was going on and that and
that's so my hand misses it doesn't he
well what would Han found was actually
common knowledge among a lot of black
scholars there wasn't a lot of
originality to what Moynihan was saying
the originality was that Moynihan was
saying if the government was saying it
but he relied on a lot of black
sociologists at the time who had reached
a similar conclusion people at a
Franklin Frazier and there were this was
this this this observation about what
was going on
breakdown Latin America family the
breakdown America was something that
others had been observing what was new
was that it was in a government report
put out by by the lab right all right
and
next up in your argument is a book a
1976 book by the way this makes you
argument that I had not even heard of
this book 1976 book the black family in
slavery and freedom by Herbert Gottman a
professor at the City College of New
York and Guttman wrote if enslavement
caused the widespread development among
African Americans of the fatherless
mattre focal family that is to say the
rise of families headed by single women
where the fathers were absent and
Moynihan in one way or another suggested
this was a result of slavery
if enslavement caused it then such a
condition should have been even more
common among urban Afro Americans closer
to the time of slavery and Guttman said
that's not what the evidence shows did
the evidence show so Guttman was
critiquing the Moynihan report right he
didn't like the fact that Moynihan had
attributed the breakdown of the black
family to slavery he said wait a minute
I agree with you that we've had this
breakdown but can we attribute it to
slavery let's look at what was going on
the black family both during slavery and
in the years immediately following
slavery and if you look at say census
data going back to the late 1800s all
the way through the 1940s rates of black
marriages exceeded rates of white
marriages during this entire period in
every census from 1890 to 1940 black
marriage rates are higher than white
marriage rates so if if slavery is the
cause of a black family breakdown that
we see in the 60s and 70s and 80s wait a
minute did it skip a few generations
this legacy of slavery skip a few
generations and then reassert itself or
is something else responsible for this
breakdown and Guttman was it wasn't was
very liberal I mean I I think he
self-identified as a Marxist actually so
he didn't have a he was an honest person
he was an honest intellectual right and
he said let's look at the evidence here
and not make assumptions and what's
what's incredible is
today we continue to make these
assumptions about how to explain the
social breakdown we see in the black
community today we automatically ascribe
it to the legacy of slavery or the
legacy of Jim Crow when in fact there
are many many other factors that we
should be considering false black power
I'm quoting you during slavery its
immediate aftermath and on through the
first quarter of the 20th century so
we've got about almost eight decades
there that you're covering here the vast
majority of black children were raised
in two-parent households black marriages
were as long-lasting and stable as the
marriages of economically comparable
whites and the black female headed homes
that did exist tended to be like their
white counterparts comprised of older
widows not teenagers raising children
alone because the history and this is
one of your principal points here the
history has been so forcibly submerged I
read that and thought is Jason right can
that possibly be so yeah it's it's it's
not the narrative that you see coming
out of the left or the traditional civil
rights groups who of course have their
their their own agenda and that that's
the reason they push the narrative that
they do but know the facts the facts are
the facts
Peter you find that when you speak at
colleges and university I know you do a
lot of that of course you're on Fox News
and other shows do people write you and
say that can't be so do you do there is
later amount of disbelief yeah that that
how can this be true this doesn't seem
right
it's somewhat counterintuitive but yes I
do I do get that and again it's because
we have accepted this narrative that
what we see today in black in America is
a result of the legacy of slavery in Jim
Crow and what I argue in the book is
that what we see today is the legacy of
the Great Society so the legacy of 60s
programs that were well-intentioned
trying to help low-income blacks in
particular but had unintended
consequences
and today we see the consequences that
those policies engendered and that's
welcoming at the Barack Obama false
black power Obama's election was the
culmination of a civil rights strategy
that prioritized political power to
advance blacks and eight years later we
once again learned the limitations of
that strategy let's take both of those
assertions the culmination of a civil
rights strategy right explain that well
prior to the 1960s I think that the
black leadership in this country had
been focused on developing that human
capital that I talked about earlier on
Washington is Booker T Washington
Frederick Douglas all through the 20s
30s and 40s blacks were focused on
becoming more literate educating
themselves
Frederick Douglass gave a famous speech
in which he said essentially stop
helping us didn't he well I mean that's
so the government government wasn't
gonna come save blacks and they
understood that and so they said about
the hard work of improving themselves
and tremendous progress was being made
if you look at what was going on in
black America prior to the 1960s in
terms of black education advancement
blacks entering the skilled professions
black homeownership rates black-white
income gaps for shrinking even in the
criminal justice system Peter in the
1940s the black homicide rate fell by
something like 18% in the 1950s it fell
by another 20% so here you had these
black white gaps in the criminal justice
after that we see today's after the
migration to to the northern since oh
there's right and that's an interesting
point because you would have expected to
find the opposite because urban
communities tend to be more violent than
rural communities yes so you have this
huge influx of people from urban
communities to rural South urban
communities and yet you see a decline in
violent crime
among this group incredible incredible
but again but my point was that the
advancements that blacks were making
prior to the modern-day civil rights
movement is something we seldom study or
discuss or take into account in any
length and I think this is a period of
time that deserves a lot more study what
were blacks doing to to narrow gaps that
were narrowing at this time and have
since either stalled slowed or in some
senses reversed course and started to
widen and again and my point is that
blacks were focused on developing that
human capital and they were doing in the
end they were doing that then we get the
1960s and the shift calm there's a shift
to acquiring political capital
integrating political institutions the
Voting Rights Act comes along and it was
a tremendous success you had voter
registration rates in 1964 in the south
places like Georgia Alabama single
digits black voter registration rates a
year after the Civil Rights Act they're
up to the 50% 60% I mean it was a
tremendous success right it worked
and then the leadership the black
leadership in particular turned to focus
on electing more black officials and the
thinking was if we could elect more
black officials the rest will take care
of itself
black socio-economic advancement will
flow naturally from black political
clout we just need to get more of our
kind into office and the rest will take
care of itself
we need our share of political political
power and this strategy too has been a
success on its own terms in other words
black political office holders have
proliferated in this country between
1970 and 2010 they went from fewer than
1,500 to more than 10,000 including
black mayors black governors black
congressmen black school superintendents
black police chiefs and fire chiefs
blacks and and in large cities with
large black populations Philadelphia
Cleveland Chicago Los Angeles New York
Atlanta so blacks gained a tremendous
amount of political clout
this strategy the problem is that the
rest didn't happen the way it was
supposed to in other words if you look
at what happened in Marion Barry is
Washington DC or Sharpe James's Newark
or Coleman Young's Detroit the black
poor became more impoverished on their
watch
I'm in Blackley under black leadership
which is not to say that there's a
causal link here that because there were
black mayors we didn't see black
advancement because this black
advancement didn't occur under white
mayors and white governors in white
congressmen - so I'm not making but when
a minimum the hope was for us I hope the
hope and and and and and and I think
that the idea that black political clout
would lead to more black economic
advancement was misplaced and and the
reason we should have known this and
this gets into the work of Thomas Sol
someone you've interviewed many times
who has made this point repeatedly in
his scholarship which is that if you
look at other groups political
advancement is not the route that they
took to economic advancement typically
the reversed happened a group advanced
economically first right and then got
involved in politics later that's the
root of everything from Jewish Americans
to Italians one exception to that rule
is the Irish yes who were politically
extremely successful you had political
Irish political machines running cities
like Philadelphia and Boston but there
was no Irish middle class to speak of in
fact it wasn't until the decline of
those political machines that we saw the
rise of an Irish middle class and and so
if you look at the history of other
groups not only in the US but in other
countries there was no need there was no
reason to expect that simply putting
blacks in office was gonna lead to
socio-economic advancement for blacks
Jason Barack Obama two to two data
points here one is obvious a country
this is a country in which African
Americans make up just 13% of the
population the country elected a black
man
and then it really at him faults black
power here's the second point the Obama
administration's racial politics almost
certainly harmed racial discourse by
2016 polls showed race relations had
reached their lowest point in nearly a
quarter of a century huge achievement
almost everyone would argue I think to
elect a black man President of the
United States and eight years later
somehow Jason contends race relations
are worse not better what happened well
President Obama is a politician
first and foremost and he is a liberal
politician who ascribes to identity
politics like many others in his party
do and protect the fact has probably
been worse today than it was when when
he was in office this adherence to
identity politics and that is appealing
to various voting blocs telling them to
vote for politicians who look like them
who share their racial or ethnic
background that that is a priority when
it comes to who you should choose to
represent you politically appealing to
blacks as blacks women as women gay
people as gay people not appealing to
them as Americans with a common interest
that is identity politics and that is
something that President Obama practiced
and it is a very divisive strategy it
helps you get out your base
it may help you scare people to the
polls rile up voters that you need to
support you but at the end of the day
you end up with a very polarized
electorate and that is what President
Obama practiced for eight years using
his Justice Department to investigate
police shootings all over the country
sending his Attorney General Eric Holder
out to accuse Republicans of suppressing
black voters trying to disenfranchise
them
pushing for affirmative action programs
racial preferences and so forth these
are very racially divisive things to do
when you're present and to use your
platform as president to advance these
sorts of things and the result I think
was a very divided racially divided
electorate Donald Trump you quote in
false black power you quote your friend
Shelby Steele Hoover fellow here at the
at Stanford Shelby Steele rights and you
quote perhaps the Obama presidency was
the culmination of the age of white
guilt our new conservative president
that is Trump rolls his eyes when he's
called a racist and we all know that he
isn't one the jig is up close quote
white guilt tell us tell us why you
quote that white guilt means what why
did it peak under Obama why does Shelby
Steele argue that maybe it's it's
evaporating disappearing under Trump
well I think a lot of white Americans
thought that voting for a black
president would get this country over a
hump and they reelected him because they
weren't done congratulating themselves
for electing the first black president
what oh wait but you just said something
really fun it's be witty but that's not
in other words to make this record too
many white voters at the election and
then the reelection was about white
people was about themselves right and
what Obama symbolized Obama was a symbol
you weren't you weren't voting for the
man himself necessarily and again we
don't hesitate to paint with too broad a
brush here but I think many white
Americans saw this as saw him as a
symbol of progress and and thought we
could we could we could achieve some
sort of post-racial America which is
which is the idea what they were missing
is that and this gets back to the
identity politics that the Left
practices liberals have no interest in a
post-racial Society they may claim that
they long for one but but when you want
racially gerrymandered voting districts
you don't want a post-racial Society
when you want racial preferences in
higher education you don't want a
post-racial Society when you name your
group black lives matter you are not
practicing post-racialism the left has
no interest in being post-racial and and
and even though they regularly claim
that they do and I think that's what a
lot of people have missed here if you're
a progressive if you're a liberal you
want to keep race front and center in
our national debates oh whether it's
relevant to the discussion or not you
want to keep it front and center because
you think it works for you politically
all right two facts sets one from from
false black power I'm quoting you Obama
oversaw by far the slowest recovery
since World War two six years after the
recession officially ended the jobless
rate for blacks was still above 9% and
the jobless rate for black teens
surpassed 31 percent yet Obama's share
of the black vote was 95 percent in 2008
and 93 percent four years later that's
number one here's number two in 2016
Donald Trump received eight percent of
the african-american vote the Trump
economy is now booming and black
unemployment has fallen to the lowest
levels ever recorded with the result
that Donald Trump's support has soared
among blacks from the eight percent who
voted for him to the nine percent who
now give him positive approval ratings
Obama didn't help and received
overwhelming support Trump I think what
what you would argue is Trump got out of
the way of the economy and look who
disproportionately benefited African
Americans and the support for him
riemann remains nugatory you know blacks
need economic growth more than they need
my present is the lesson here though of
course the left but only 9% will know it
well there's a lot of history here Peter
and it starts with the history or the
modern day history of the Republican
Party and black Americans blacks
typically vote for Democrats and very
large majorities and they've been doing
so for decades I think partly this has
to do with the history of the Republican
Party particularly in the post-civil
rights era and I should really to
clarify that the history of
conservatives I should say in the where
conservatives were during the civil
rights movement and and particularly and
where Southern Democrats were the ones
that became the Dixiecrats so I think
there's a history so you hear Republican
parties base shifting from the Northeast
down to the south is that the history
what what what is the history that the
Conservatives that opposed integration
oh I see this but where the conservative
movement was during the 1950's in 1960s
when it came to the issue of integration
an ending Jim Crow in the civil rights
movement of the 1950s led by Martin
Luther King but wouldn't the Democratic
southern barrens had far more direct
result on keeping Japan prolonging Jim
Crow as far long as they possibly could
I'm just trying so Barry Goldwater
opposed civil rights acts on
constitutional grounds never though you
do have the history of a higher
percentage of Republicans voted for it
for civil rights act then Democrats at
the time and that was largely a regional
right depending on what part of the
country you represented it less so then
then party but the I'm talking about
your sort of John Birch conservative
okay and and that that history and I and
I think that there are a lot of black
Americans today of a certain age who
remember that history and are probably
simply lost to the Republican Party as a
result
so I think that's one that's one factor
here so there's something historical and
simply generation generation well yeah
something generational the other issue I
think has to do with the lack of
outreach among Republicans to the black
community Republican politicians
typically write off this vote they
figure they don't need it to win and
time spent seeking voters you're less
likely to get means less time seeking
voters you're more likely to get so you
don't see a lot of Republicans and black
communities visiting barber shops and
community centers you don't see them
advertising on black radio stations
ordering black television shows and so
forth and and that's reflected in blacks
not turning out to vote for Republicans
so you have that that history also
explains those numbers that that you see
there I thought Donald Trump had
something going for him that a lot of
Republicans did not and that was that he
was this public public figure prior to
being a politician who was quite popular
within the black community particularly
his television show The Apprentice had a
huge black viewership and I thought that
there was an opportunity there for
Donald Trump to go into these
communities speak to these folks and say
you know I'm a businessman I'm a
developer I can tell you why these Lots
are empty I can tell you where these
jobs have gone I can tell you why those
prices are so expensive at that vote
bodega down the street instead of at the
grocery store out in the suburbs vote
for me
and I and I can begin to fix these that
there's the situation for you and he'd
have some credibility with these folks a
couple things went wrong there one I
think was his Bertha ISM that turned off
lots of blacks and who will never
forgive his efforts to delegitimize
illegitimate yes yes the first black
president on those grounds and secondly
once Donald Trump became a politician he
did the same math that other Republican
politicians did which is do I need this
can I win without this vote and how much
time should I spend seeking this vote if
I don't really need it so that's the
there's a paradox that occurred to me as
I was reading false black power where
you write understandably so that African
Americans have succeeded politically
President of the United States and
African American but there's an odd way
in which by granting such overwhelming
support to one party they've placed
themselves outside the usual competition
between parties for votes
exactly so Democratic politicians have
very little incentive to do anything
other than take African Americans for
granted they will get that vote there's
on the margin there's a question about
whether they can drive up the percentage
of people blacks voting but they'll have
the vote and Republicans by contrast
have no incentive to do anything other
than write them off they're out they've
by somehow or other they've they're not
making self they're not taking advantage
of the two-party system the other thing
the other phenomenon you see are more
extremist politicians in other words the
Congressional Black Caucus is among the
most liberal as the most liberal voting
record of in Congress so the blacks that
do get elected have no reason to make
any appeals to the other side so you're
you're not only giving all your votes to
Democrats you're giving your all your
votes are the most liberal Democrats and
and it's funny because it has come back
to haunt I think black politicians who
want to seek higher office and then need
to appeal to not just winning a
congressional district but winning the
whole state and it makes it more
difficult to make that that transition
and now we're seeing a phenomenon where
black politicians who had successfully
done this risen as moderates now find
themselves in a much more progressive
Democratic Party Cory Booker's than
inaudible Harris Harris Cory Booker the
Cory Booker that ran Newark New Jersey
is not the Cory Booker run
for president the Kamala Harris who was
a prosecutor out in California for many
years before she became a senator is not
the common law Harris running for
president now they're crowded into this
progressive Lane of the Democratic Party
trying to be more extremists than their
previous political careers would suggest
that they really are what is to be done
the Atlantic's Donaghy C coats the
United States owes black Americans
reparation payments quote American
prosperity was ill-gotten and selective
in its distribution what is needed is an
airing of family secrets a settling with
old ghosts what is needed is a healing
of the American psyche and the
banishment of white guilt reparations
would mean a revolution of the American
consciousness Jason I think the best
response to reparations to the
reparations argument that I've ever come
across came from Shelby Steele where he
said that slavery can be endured and
overcome it cannot be repaid and I agree
with that I'd also add that Coates does
a brilliant job of explaining why so
many previous programs to help blacks
have not worked in his Atlantic article
that kind of a lot of attention he goes
through various Great Society programs
one after another that were advanced
expanded resources report bureaucracies
were expanded to help blacks and that
the results has been negligible and
sometimes in some cases blacks are worse
off and then at the end of this piece he
calls for yet another wealth
redistribution program in the form of
reparations and my question is why would
this one be any more successful than all
the ones you've just explained to me
haven't worked in the past I have I I
don't
I have I don't follow the lot I have a
ninja because the late Charles
Krauthammer late the late Charles
Krauthammer suggested reparations if
they're part do you remember this part
of what he called a grand compromise I'm
quoting Charles Krauthammer this is this
goes back eight years I believe
reparations would be paid he suggested
fifty thousand dollars for family of
four he actually named numbers we then
end the affirmative action experiment
that has been disastrous for
african-americans and for America as a
whole and we return to the original
vision of Martin Luther King jr. color
blindness fine reparations and that's it
after that colorblindness no more
affirmative action no more special
identity programs would you buy that if
that no could be struck I don't know I
wouldn't buy and I don't think most
Americans would buy you when you talk
about reparations in the 21st century
you're talking about people who never
owned slaves paying reparations to
people who were never slaves who's going
to be before that so this great act of
justice is unjust it's crazy all right
we can't go back and fix this we have to
move forward I think that there's an
argument for ending affirmative action
on their own on its own merits I think
it's it's it's it's it's harming it's
not just ineffective it's actually doing
great harm in the name of helping blacks
so I think there's a there's a case to
be made for doing that but no I don't
think that that that that that
reparations are politically feasible nor
would they in practice be any more
effective at helping the black poor than
all the other previous wealth
redistribution schemes that have been
put forward over the past half so here's
Jason Reilly's program false black power
in quoting after emancipation blacks set
out about set out acquiring the values
habits and skills necessary to thrive in
a capitalist system the gains were
steady and undeniable if blacks want to
begin replenishing that human capital
true power they shouldn't look to
politicians they should look to their
own past
right you know explain that well the
problem with looking to politicians is
that the politicians have their own
agenda and it's not always going to be
the agenda that the black poor in this
case need in particular and I'll give
you an example with with President Obama
take education as you know school choice
is tremendously popular in the black
community particularly among low-income
blacks there for charters there for
vouchers at much higher rates than
whites Obama becomes present United
States and spends eight years trying to
shut down a school voucher program in
his own backyard in Washington DC that
was started by his predecessor George W
Bush why why the first black president
in could enhance this program that he
knows poll after poll shows is popular
in the black community the reasons that
Barack Obama is no longer simply another
black person he's now a black president
he has a special interest that are are
nipping at his heels he wants to be
reelected he has to indulge these
special interests one of whom are
teachers unions who oppose school choice
because many of these schools aren't
unionized and don't use union labor so
Obama has a choice am I going to side
with my political benefactors or am I
going to side with this black
constituency that helped put me in
office he made his choice he sided with
the teachers unions and that's what
you're going to see because politicians
want to get reelected and and and win
and win their interests part ways with
those of the people they claim to
represent they're gonna put their own
interests first because that's what
that's what politicians do and that is
the problem for low-income blacks
looking to politicians to be their
Savior it's it's not going to happen
what what we want are for blacks to be
in a position to thrive no matter who's
in office and and and and and that's
where other groups in America are
and and and they weren't always there
but but they are today one of the
flipside of this if you hopeful are you
hopeful by the way one of the statistics
that I just so discouraging when
Moynihan when the Moynihan report came
out in 1965 he treated as alarming red
flags and out of wedlock birth rate of
25% that rate is now over 70% by the way
I should note that among all groups it's
gone above white Americans it's over 30%
now but Wow how do you how do you put a
family how do you put the family back
together
how do you how do you or is the idea
that if you get if you how do you do it
do you have to destroy that you have to
undo unravel the Great Society programs
in order to permit ordinary human
flourishing to begin taking place again
those programs that have in place
perverse incentives yes you do need to
get rid of them
you-you-you can't replace a father in
the home with a check it just doesn't it
doesn't work the government's not very
good at raising children there they're
not very they're not very good at it so
yes the right incentives do need to be
in place I'm not in favor of eliminating
the safety net but it should be
temporary and in many cases for too many
people in this in this country it's
become generational the safety net so um
but but yes it as I say with the title
please stop helping us in the previous
but it's not really a matter of what we
need the government to start doing this
work needs them to stop doing I don't
think there's a there's a there's a
silver bullet government program out
there that can fix all this what we need
the government to do is to get out of
the way so that this self development
can take place human s relations are as
strong in the black community as
anywhere else your government stopped
supporting them sure sure sure but we
will follow that's the argument yes when
we talk about the
honesty of culture that's what we mean
but it's also important to add that
culture isn't static so just because one
culture today may be more successful
than other cultures doesn't mean that
will always be the case and again even
if you don't like comparisons between
blacks and immigrants and many don't
because many blacks have a different a
different backgrounds your coming here
as a slave is different from sailing
over here voluntarily but look at if you
don't like those comparisons then let's
compare blacks today the attitudes and
black communities today with the
attitudes and black communities of a
previous era and and there you see stark
stark differences there was no acting
white criticism that that kids threw at
one another generations ago the way they
do today it wasn't considered shameful
to to be smart to raise your hand in
class to know the answer
to be bookish those weren't sneers in
the 1920s and 30s and 40s the way they
have become today those are cultural
attitude changes that have happened in
this country among blacks over the past
50 years they've shifted one way now and
there's no reason they can't shift back
but what we do need is for our leading
thinkers today and our politicians and
our policy makers to stop making excuses
for antisocial behavior that they see
today Jason which is what too often too
often happens a few final questions here
so much of what you've been saying just
now and again so much of false black
power is a history book and you assert
again and again and again there are
about eight decades of african-american
history by the way we're taping this in
Black History Month there are about
eight decades from emancipation at the
end of the Civil War during the Civil
War if you wanted data from the
Emancipation Proclamation to the passage
of the Great Society in the mid sixties
actually that's a century so there's
nearly a century of African American
history that has simply been forgotten
or you might even argue
oppressed and I have to say I'm aware of
it only because I read it in three
places the works of Thomas Sol Shelby
Steele and Jason Riley full stop are you
so so we've got these competing
narratives one says african-americans
are where they are because of the legacy
of slavery and the other says no you're
missing a century of progress that
stopped and in some case was was
reversed do you see any signs that among
let's let's say African American
Millennials the rising generation have a
greater awareness of the history that
you and Tom soul and Shelby Steele light
about now III don't I don't see it in
fact III when I look at the success of
groups like black lives matter and
gaining the public's imagination
capturing the public's imagination I'm
very pessimistic about this I I believe
that groups like that or that type of
thinking is ascendant in the country
right now this the whole social justice
movement makes me very pessimistic that
this history will start being considered
any any time soon I would argue a few
more people are right what you're saying
but you also have understands in the
Academy as well you'd think there are
doctoral dissertations this trove of
material which has gone unexplored
you're right and going back to Moynihan
the the reaction the vitriol that he
faced after that report scared off a lot
of academics and sociologists to
studying black culture so since 1965 the
subject has been froze it's it's it's
it's been it's been it's it's taboo to
go there that I think has changed in
some sense I've read articles by
prominent black sociologists like
Orlando Patterson and William Julius
Wilson who have said this is this is
ridiculous the idea that we can't
discuss black cultural pathology when
we're talking about racial
the idea that we have to pretend that
these two things have nothing to do with
one another is ridiculous and we have to
start talking about that that is not yet
the mainstream view but it is I am
there's some sense that that among some
black intellectuals there's a
understanding that we can't go on
ignoring anti-social behavior and the
role it plays in inequality in this
country Jason you talked about the black
lives matter the current movements let
me ask you about is related movement
renaming Calhoun college at Yale taking
down Confederate monuments removing
statues of robert e lee things that
would be concerning the black leadership
these would be at the bottom at the very
bottom i I just the that that is not
what low-income blacks need they need
school choice and you have the
n-double-a-cp coming out against charter
schools and in condemning Calhoun
statues I mean there's the disconnect
between the priorities of the black
leadership and the needs of the black
underclass could not be further apart
than it is one is symbolic political
talk and that's what's happening and the
other is serious because these it's it's
because the groups like black lives
matter now control the narrative of what
drives inequality in this country and
when you control the narrative it's as
if the facts don't don't really matter
and and and and and so anecdotes replace
data empirical evidence logic reasoning
on social media a video goes viral and
so this is representative of what is
going on in the country because CNN
plays it in loop over and over again and
other networks pick it up they control
the narrative and and
it's it's unfortunate but that's that's
where we are today Jason last question
you've got one book here please stop
helping us how liberals make it harder
for blacks to succeed now your most
recent book false black power you are a
working journalist who has insistently
almost defiantly identified yourself
with what is very much a dissenting or
contrarian point of view and if you
spend a few moments looking at comments
on these books on Amazon or googling
around mmm whenever Jason Riley right
devotes his column in The Wall Street
Journal to matters of race and economic
advancement you get beat up and so this
is a pretty simple question you've just
said your pessimism to have attached
your career to a lost cause no keeps you
feel better about you Jason about your
prospects here Thomas all once wrote
that there are some books you write for
the pure joy of it and and there are
other books you write because there are
things that that need to be said and and
and and other people have better sense
than to say them out loud at least III
think that these things need to be said
people in the past have said them I'm
able to say them today people like
Thomas Wall and Shelby Steele and Walter
Williams have paved the way for another
generation of people they've laid the
groundwork they've done the research and
they're still right
and they're still right their arguments
are still correct and and this needs to
it needs to get out there people need to
know that there is an alternative to the
narrative pushed by the civil rights
old-guard
liberals and progressives what
so not only what blacks are going
through today but how blacks have fared
in the past and because of their own
self-interest whether it's a an N double
ACP who wants to stay relevant or or a
Barack Obama who wants to get elected
they have a very selective view of which
histories they're going to discuss but
you need honest thinkers out there
giving people the full scope of black
history which is more than a history of
what whites have have done to Black's
that that's not the the some of black
history in this country but you might
think it is listening to some on the
left discuss discuss our past so no I I
think that I'm providing something of a
public service in continuing to write
about these things from a different
different perspective because there's
there's more than one way to tell this
story Jason Riley author of please stop
helping us and false black power thank
you thank you for uncommon knowledge and
the Hoover Institution I'm Peter
Robinson
[Music]
you